**CHAPTER 10**

### Modernization and Migration

You’ve heard that TypeScript is great. You also know from painful experience that

maintaining your 15-year-old, 100,000-line JavaScript library isn’t. If only it could

become a TypeScript library!

This chapter offers some advice about migrating your JavaScript project to TypeScript

without losing your sanity or abandoning the effort.

The less code you have, the easier it will be to migrate. So it’s a good idea to remove

deprecated features and do a round of dead code elimination before you start a Type‐

Script migration. You may want to hold off on other forms of modernization, how‐

ever: converting a jQuery web app to React will actually be much easier once you’ve

adopted TypeScript.

Only the smallest codebases can be migrated in one fell swoop. The key for larger

projects is to migrate gradually. Item 81 discusses how to do this. For a long migra‐

tion, it’s essential to track your progress and make sure you don’t backslide. This cre‐

ates a sense of momentum and inevitability to the change. Item 82 discusses ways to

do this.

Migrating a large project to TypeScript won’t necessarily be easy, but it does offer a

huge potential upside. A 2017 study found that 15% of bugs fixed in JavaScript

projects on GitHub could have been prevented with TypeScript.^1 Even more impres‐

sive, a survey of 6 months’ worth of postmortems at Airbnb found that 38% of them

could have been prevented by TypeScript.^2 If you’re advocating for TypeScript at your

organization, stats like these will help! So will running some experiments and finding

##### 343


early adopters. Item 80 discusses how to experiment with TypeScript before you

begin migration.

Since this chapter is largely about JavaScript, many of the code samples are either

pure JavaScript (and not expected to pass the type checker) or checked with looser

settings (e.g., with noImplicitAny off ). We’ll make occasional reference to the

author’s dygraphs charting library in this chapter as an example of legacy code in

need of modernization and migration. dygraphs is a venerable old JavaScript library

that saw its most active period of development from 2009–2016.

#### Item 79: Write Modern JavaScript

In addition to checking your code for type safety, TypeScript compiles it to any ver‐

sion of JavaScript, all the way back to 2009 vintage ES5. Since TypeScript is a superset

of the latest version of JavaScript, this means that you can use tsc as a “transpiler”:

something that takes new JavaScript and converts it to older, more widely supported

JavaScript.

Taking a different perspective, this means that when you decide to convert an existing

JavaScript codebase to TypeScript, there’s no downside to adopting all the latest Java‐

Script features. In fact, there’s quite a bit of upside: because TypeScript is designed to

work with modern JavaScript, modernizing your JS is a great first step toward adopt‐

ing TypeScript.

And because TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript, learning to write more modern

and idiomatic JavaScript means you’re learning to write better TypeScript, too.

This item presents some of the highlights of modern JavaScript, which I’m defining

here as everything introduced in ES2015 (aka ES6) and after. This material is covered

in much greater detail in other books and online. If any of the topics mentioned here

are unfamiliar, you owe it to yourself to learn more about them. TypeScript can be

tremendously helpful when you’re learning a new language feature like async/await:

it almost certainly understands the feature better than you do and can guide you

toward correct usage.

These features are all worth understanding, but by far the most important for adopt‐

ing TypeScript are ECMAScript modules and ES2015 classes. We’ll look at those first

and then quickly list some of the other highlights. If your project is already using

these features, then count your blessings! Your migration will be much easier.

**Use ECMAScript Modules**

Before the 2015 version of ECMAScript (ES) there was no standard way to break

your code into separate modules. There were many solutions, from multiple

<script> tags, manual concatenation, and Makefiles, to Node.js-style require

**344 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


statements or AMD-style define callbacks. TypeScript even had its own module sys‐

tem (Item 72).

Today there is one standard: ECMAScript modules, aka import and export. If your

JavaScript codebase is still a single file, if you use concatenation or one of the other

module systems, it’s time to switch to ES modules. This may require setting up a tool

like webpack or ts-node. TypeScript works best with ES modules, and adopting them

will facilitate your transition, not least because it will allow you to migrate modules

one at a time (see Item 82).

The details will vary depending on your setup, but if you’re using CommonJS like

this:

```
// CommonJS
// a.js
const b = require('./b');
console.log(b.name);
```
```
// b.js
const name = 'Module B';
module.exports = {name};
```
then the ES module equivalent would look like:

```
// ECMAScript module
// a.ts
import * as b from './b';
console.log(b.name);
```
```
// b.ts
export const name = 'Module B';
```
You can adopt ES modules in your TypeScript without adopting them in the gener‐

ated JavaScript, which may be a more difficult change. If you set the module option to

"commonjs" in your tsconfig.json, for example, TypeScript would compile the second

code sample to the first one.

**Use Classes Instead of Prototypes**

JavaScript has a flexible prototype-based object model. But by and large, JS develop‐

ers have ignored this in favor of a more rigid class-based model. This was officially

codified in the language with the introduction of the class keyword in ES2015.

If your code uses prototypes in a straightforward way, switch to using classes. That is,

instead of:

```
function Person(first, last) {
this .first = first;
this .last = last;
}
```
```
Item 79: Write Modern JavaScript | 345
```

```
Person.prototype.getName = function () {
return this .first + ' ' + this .last;
}
```
```
const marie = new Person('Marie', 'Curie');
console.log(marie.getName());
```
write:

```
class Person {
constructor(first, last) {
this .first = first;
this .last = last;
}
```
```
getName() {
return this .first + ' ' + this .last;
}
}
```
```
const marie = new Person('Marie', 'Curie');
console.log(marie.getName());
```
TypeScript struggles with the prototype version of Person but understands the class-

based version with minimal annotations. If you’re unfamiliar with the syntax, Type‐

Script will help you get it right.

For code that uses older-style classes, the TypeScript language service offers a “Con‐

vert function to an ES2015 class” quick fix that can speed this up (Figure 10-1).

Figure 10-1. The TypeScript language service offers a quick fix to convert older-style

classes to ES2015 classes.

**346 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


**Other Features**

Adopting ES2015 modules and classes will have the greatest impact on facilitating

your code’s migration to TypeScript. But there are many other new features of Java‐

Script: a new version comes out every year! Having at least a passing familiarity with

them will help you write more succinct and idiomatic JavaScript, and hence Type‐

Script. If any of the features in this list aren’t familiar to you, do some Googling to

learn more. Even just knowing the name of the feature can be helpful.

- Use let and const instead of var to declare variables. The reason is that var has
    some quirky scoping rules. If you’re curious to learn more about them, read
    Effective JavaScript. But better to avoid var and not worry!
- Use for-of or array methods like map instead of C-style for(;;) loops. The
    three-part C-style for loop introduces an index variable that you may not other‐
    wise need, is easier to get wrong, and doesn’t adapt as well to iterators (as
    described in Item 17). See Item 60 for more on how to iterate over objects in
    TypeScript.
- Use async and await for asynchronous functions instead of callbacks or raw
    Promises. This is covered in detail in Item 27.
- Prefer arrow functions to function expressions because they’re more concise and
    they preserve the this value from their surrounding context. Item 69 explains
    this binding.
- Use default parameter values. Traditionally you’d set default values on function
    parameters in the implementation, but in modern JavaScript you can put the
    default value directly in the declaration (function foo(param=123) {}). In
    TypeScript this has the added advantage that it allows the parameter’s type to be
    inferred from the default value.
- Use compact object literals and destructuring assignment. Rather than writing
    {x: x}, you can just write {x}. This encourages consistent naming of variables.
    Conversely you can write [x, y] = pair to unpack values from an array (or
    object). This works particularly well with TypeScript tuple types.
- Use Map and Set instead of objects for associative arrays. If you’ve ever tried to
    read the string "constructor" or "prototype" off of an object, you’ll know why.
    The ES2015 containers avoid the many problems that stem from JavaScript’s con‐
    flation of objects and associative arrays.
- Use optional chaining to facilitate working with nullable values. Rather than
    writing x && x.y, you can just write x?.y. You can also use this to conditionally
    call a function that could be undefined: fn.?(). But, as Items 33 and 37 explain,
    better still to avoid null values altogether.

```
Item 79: Write Modern JavaScript | 347
```

- Use “nullish coalescing” (??) to fill in default values instead of ||. If x is 0 , then x
    || 10 evaluates to 10 , whereas x ?? 10 will be 0. Conflating truthiness and null‐
    ishness is a common source of bugs. You generally want to check for null, and ??
    helps you do that.
- Don’t bother with "use strict". This enables “strict mode,” an ES5 (2009) inno‐
    vation that opts you into a less error-prone variant of the language. TypeScript is
    more strict than strict mode. It will even include "use strict" in its output JS
    when you’re in module mode (i.e., import and export) to keep you in strict
    mode at runtime. In other words, putting "use strict" in your TypeScript
    source has no effect.

These are just a few of the many new JavaScript features that TypeScript lets you use.

TC39, the body that governs JS standards, is very active, and new features are added

year to year. The TypeScript team is currently committed to implementing any

feature that reaches stage 3 (out of 4) in the standardization process, so you don’t

even have to wait for the ink to dry. Check out the TC39 GitHub repo for the latest.

As of this writing, the Pipeline, Records, and Tuples proposals in particular have great

potential to impact TypeScript.

**Things to Remember**

- TypeScript lets you write modern JavaScript whatever your runtime environ‐
    ment. Take advantage of this by using the language features it enables. In addi‐
    tion to improving your codebase, this will help TypeScript understand your code.
- Adopt ES modules (import/export) and classes to facilitate your migration to
    TypeScript.
- Use TypeScript to learn about language features like classes, destructuring, and
    async/await.
- Check the TC39 GitHub repo and TypeScript release notes to learn about all the
    latest language features.

#### Item 80: Use @ts-check and JSDoc to Experiment with TypeScript

Before you begin the process of converting your source files from JavaScript to Type‐

Script (Item 81), you may want to experiment with type checking to get an initial read

on the sorts of issues that will come up. TypeScript’s @ts-check directive lets you do

exactly this. It directs the type checker to analyze a single file and report whatever

issues it finds. You can think of it as an extremely loose version of type checking:

looser even than TypeScript with noImplicitAny off.

**348 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


Here’s how it works:

```
// @ts-check
const person = {first: 'Grace', last: 'Hopper'};
2 * person.first
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~ The right-hand side of an arithmetic operation must be of type
// 'any', 'number', 'bigint' or an enum type
```
TypeScript infers the type of person.first as string, so 2 * person.first is a type

error, no type annotations required.

While it may surface this sort of blatant type error, or functions called with too many

arguments, in practice, @ts-check tends to turn up a few specific types of errors.

**Undeclared Globals**

If these are symbols that you’re defining, then declare them with let or const. If they

are “ambient” symbols that are defined elsewhere (in a <script> tag in an HTML file,

for instance), then you can create a type declaration file to describe them. For exam‐

ple, if you have JavaScript like this:

```
// @ts-check
console.log(user.firstName);
// ~~~~ Cannot find name 'user'
```
then you could create a file called types.d.ts:

```
interface UserData {
firstName: string ;
lastName: string ;
}
declare let user: UserData;
```
You may need to adjust your tsconfig.json file so that TypeScript is aware of this file. If

it is, it will make the error disappear.

This types.d.ts file is a valuable artifact because it models the environment in which

your code runs (Item 76). It will become the basis for your project’s type declarations.

**Unknown Libraries**

If you’re using a third-party library, TypeScript needs to know about it. For example,

you might use jQuery to set the size of an HTML element. With @ts-check, Type‐

Script will flag an error:

```
// @ts-check
$('#graph').style({'width': '100px', 'height': '100px'});
// Error: Cannot find name '$'
```
The solution is to install the type declarations for jQuery:

```
$ npm install --save-dev @types/jquery
```
```
Item 80: Use @ts-check and JSDoc to Experiment with TypeScript | 349
```

Now the error is specific to jQuery:

```
// @ts-check
$('#graph').style({'width': '100px', 'height': '100px'});
// ~~~~~ Property 'style' does not exist on type 'JQuery<HTMLElement>'
```
In fact, it should be .css, not .style.

@ts-check lets you take advantage of the TypeScript declarations for popular Java‐

Script libraries without migrating to TypeScript yourself. This is one of the best rea‐

sons to use it. Make sure you install the types for the version of the libraries that

you’re using. Item 66 explains how to do this and discusses what can go wrong if you

have mismatched versions.

**DOM Issues**

Assuming you’re writing code that runs in a web browser, TypeScript is likely to flag

issues around your handling of DOM elements. For example:

```
// @ts-check
const ageEl = document.getElementById('age');
ageEl.value = '12';
// ~~~~~ Property 'value' does not exist on type 'HTMLElement'
```
Item 75 is all about how the DOM is typed and how to resolve these sorts of errors in

TypeScript code. As a quick recap, the issue is that only HTMLInputElements have a

value property, but document.getElementById returns the more generic

HTMLElement.

If you know that the #age element really is an input element, then this is an appro‐

priate time to use a type assertion. But this is still a JS file, so you can’t write

as HTMLInputElement. Instead, you can assert a type using JSDoc:

```
// @ts-check
const ageEl = /** @type {HTMLInputElement} */ (document.getElementById('age'));
ageEl.value = '12'; // OK
```
If you mouse over ageEl in your editor, you’ll see that TypeScript now considers it an

HTMLInputElement. Take care as you type the JSDoc @type annotation: the parenthe‐

ses after the comment are required.

This leads us to the next type of error that comes up with @ts-check: inaccurate

JSDoc.

**Inaccurate JSDoc**

If your project already has JSDoc-style comments, TypeScript will begin checking

them when you flip on @ts-check. If you previously used a tool like Google’s Closure

Compiler that used these comments for type checking, then this shouldn’t cause

**350 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


major headaches. But you may be in for some surprises if your comments were more

like “aspirational JSDoc”:

```
// @ts-check
/**
* Gets the size (in pixels) of an element.
* @param {Node} el The element
* @return {{w: number, h: number}} The size
*/
function getSize(el) {
const bounds = el.getBoundingClientRect();
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
// Property 'getBoundingClientRect' does not exist on type 'Node'
return {width: bounds.width, height: bounds.height};
// ~~~~~ Type '{ width: any; height: any; }' is not
// assignable to type '{ w: number; h: number; }'
}
```
The first issue is a misunderstanding of the DOM: getBoundingClientRect() is

defined on Element, not Node. So the @param tag should be updated. The second is a

mismatch between properties specified in the @return tag and the implementation.

Presumably the rest of the project uses the width and height properties, so the

@return tag should be updated. It could even be dropped since TypeScript will hap‐

pily infer a return type.

You can use JSDoc to gradually add type annotations to your project. The TypeScript

language service will offer to infer type annotations as a quick fix for code where it’s

clear from usage:

```
function double (val) {
return 2 * val;
}
```
You should see a dotted underline under val in your editor. Clicking this should offer

the Quick Fix, as shown in Figure 10-2.

Figure 10-2. The TypeScript Language Services offer a quick fix to infer parameter types

from usage.

```
Item 80: Use @ts-check and JSDoc to Experiment with TypeScript | 351
```

This results in a correct JSDoc annotation:

```
// @ts-check
/**
* @param {number} val
*/
function double (val) {
return 2 * val;
}
```
This can be helpful to encourage types to flow through your code with @ts-check.

But it doesn’t always work so well. For instance:

```
function loadData(data) {
data.files.forEach( async file => {
// ...
});
}
```
If you use the quick fix to annotate data, you’ll wind up with:

```
/**
* @param {{
* files: { forEach: (arg0: (file: any) => Promise<void>) => void; };
* }} data
*/
function loadData(data) {
// ...
}
```
This is structural typing gone awry (Item 4). While the function would technically

work on any sort of object with a forEach method with that signature, the intent was

most likely for the parameter to be {files: string[]}.

You can get much of the TypeScript experience in a JavaScript project using JSDoc

annotations and @ts-check. This is appealing because it requires no changes in your

tooling. But it’s best not to go too far in this direction. Comment boilerplate has real

costs: it’s easy for your logic to get lost in a sea of JSDoc. TypeScript works best

with .ts files, not .js files. The goal is ultimately to convert your project to TypeScript,

not to JavaScript with JSDoc annotations.

The true value of @ts-check is organizational: it can be a useful way to experiment

with types, discover blockers, and get a sense for how difficult migration will be

before you ask management to commit to a weeks- or months-long TypeScript

transition.

**352 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


**Things to Remember**

- Add "// @ts-check" to the top of a JavaScript file to enable type checking
    without converting to TypeScript.
- Recognize common errors. Know how to declare globals and add type declara‐
    tions for third-party libraries.
- Use JSDoc annotations for type assertions and better type inference.
- Don’t spend too much time getting your code perfectly typed with JSDoc.
    Remember that the goal is to convert to .ts!

#### Item 81: Use allowJs to Mix TypeScript and JavaScript

For a small project, you may be able to convert from JavaScript to TypeScript in one

fell swoop. But for a larger project this “stop the world” approach won’t work. You

need to be able to transition gradually. That means you need a way for TypeScript and

JavaScript to coexist.

The key to this is the allowJs compiler option. With allowJs, TypeScript files and

JavaScript files may import one another. For JavaScript files this mode is extremely

permissive. Unless you use @ts-check (Item 80), the only errors you’ll see are syntax

errors. This is “TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript” in the most trivial sense.

While it’s unlikely to catch errors, allowJs does give you an opportunity to introduce

TypeScript into your build chain before you start making code changes. This is a

good idea because you’ll want to be able to run your tests as you convert individual

modules to TypeScript, as described in Item 82.

If your bundler includes TypeScript integration or has a plug-in available, that’s usu‐

ally the easiest path forward. With webpack, for instance, you install ts-loader:

```
$ npm install --save-dev ts-loader
```
and configure it in your webpack.config.js:

```
module.exports = {
module: {
rules: [
{
test: /\.tsx?$/,
use: 'ts-loader',
exclude: /node_modules/,
},
],
},
// ...
};
```
```
Item 81: Use allowJs to Mix TypeScript and JavaScript | 353
```

Most unit testing tools have an option like this as well. With jest, for instance, you

install ts-jest and pass TypeScript sources through it by specifying a jest.config.js

like:

```
module.exports = {
transform: {
'^.+\\.tsx?$': 'ts-jest',
},
};
```
If you run your code through Node.js, the easiest option is to set up ts-node. You can

either use this as a drop-in replacement for the node command or register it with

node so that it can understand TypeScript:

```
$ node -r ts-node/register main.ts
```
If your build chain is custom, your task will be more involved. But there’s always a

good fallback option: when you specify the outDir option, TypeScript will generate

pure JavaScript sources in a directory that parallels your source tree. Usually, your

existing build chain can be run over that. You may need to tweak TypeScript’s Java‐

Script output so that it closely matches your original JavaScript source (e.g., by speci‐

fying the target and module options).

Adding TypeScript into your build and test process may not be the most enjoyable

task, but it is an essential one that will let you begin to migrate your code with

confidence, as we’ll discuss in the next item.

**Things to Remember**

- Use the allowJs compiler option to support mixed JavaScript and TypeScript as
    you transition your project.
- Get your tests and build chain working with TypeScript before beginning large-
    scale migration.

#### Item 82: Convert Module by Module Up Your Dependency Graph

You’ve adopted modern JavaScript, converting your project to use ECMAScript mod‐

ules and classes (Item 79). You’ve integrated TypeScript into your build chain and

have all your tests passing (Item 81). Now for the fun part: converting your JavaScript

to TypeScript. But where to begin?

When you add types to a module, it’s likely to surface new type errors in all the other

modules that import it. Ideally, you’d like to convert each module once and be done

with it. This implies that you should convert modules going up the dependency

**354 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


graph: starting with the leaves (modules that import no others) and moving up to the

root. (Only computer programmers think the roots of trees are at the top!)

The very first modules to migrate are your third-party dependencies since, by defini‐

tion, you import them but they don’t import you. Usually this means installing

@types modules. If you use the lodash utility library, for example, you’d run:

```
npm install --save-dev @types/lodash
```
These type declarations will help types flow through your code and surface issues in

your use of the libraries. Make sure to match package versions (see Item 66). If your

third-party libraries bundle their types, you can skip this step. TypeScript will find

them straightaway.

If your code calls external APIs, you may also want to add type declarations for these

early on. Although these calls may happen anywhere in your code, this is still in the

spirit of moving up the dependency graph since you depend on the APIs but they do

not depend on you. Many types flow from API calls, and these are generally difficult

to infer from context. For example, you might replace:

```
async function fetchTable() {
const response = await fetch('/data');
if (!response.ok) throw new Error('Failed to fetch!');
return response.json();
}
```
with:

```
interface TabularData {
columns: string [];
rows: number [][];
}
async function fetchTable(): Promise<TabularData> {
const response = await fetch('/data');
if (!response.ok) throw new Error('Failed to fetch!');
return response.json();
}
```
Now types will flow from all calls to fetchTable. As Item 42 explained, it’s better not

to write types from scratch if you can find an existing source of truth for them, such

as a spec or database schema.

As you migrate your own modules, it’s helpful to visualize the dependency graph.

Figure 10-3 shows an example graph from dygraphs, a medium-sized JavaScript

project, made using the excellent madge tool.

The bottom of this dependency graph is the circular dependency between utils.js and

tickers.js. There are many modules that import these two, but they only import each

other. This pattern is quite common: most projects will have some sort of utility mod‐

ule at the bottom of the dependency graph.

```
Item 82: Convert Module by Module Up Your Dependency Graph | 355
```

Figure 10-3. The dependency graph for a medium-sized JavaScript project. Arrows indi‐

cate imports. Darker-shaded boxes indicate that a module is involved in a circular

import.

If you’d like to take any guesswork out of the ordering, you can run a topological sort

on your dependency graph. Placed in a spreadsheet and perhaps coupled with the

number of lines of code in each file, this can give you a good sense of how far you’ve

come and how much work is left to do.

As you migrate your code, focus on adding types rather than refactoring. If this is an

old project, you’re likely to notice some strange things and want to fix them. Resist

this urge! The immediate goal is to convert your project to TypeScript, not to

improve its design. Embarking on unrelated refactors will slow you down, make code

reviews harder, and increase the risk that you introduce bugs. Make a note of code

smells as you find them and add them to a list of future refactors. File bugs now, fix

them later. If this means using any or @ts-expect-error, that’s fine.

There are a few common errors you’ll run into as you convert to TypeScript. Some of

these were covered in Item 80, but there are some new ones, too, notably undeclared

class members and values with changing types. Let’s look at each of these errors and

how to address them.

**356 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


**Undeclared Class Members**

Classes in JavaScript do not need to declare their members, but classes in TypeScript

do. When you rename a class’s .js file to .ts, it’s likely to show errors for every single

property you reference:

```
class Greeting {
constructor (name) {
this .greeting = 'Hello';
// ~~~~~~~~ Property 'greeting' does not exist on type 'Greeting'
this .name = name;
// ~~~~ Property 'name' does not exist on type 'Greeting'
}
greet() {
return `${ this .greeting} ${ this .name}`;
// ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ Property ... does not exist
}
}
```
There’s a helpful quick fix (see Figure 10-4) for this that you should take advantage of.

Figure 10-4. The quick fix to add declarations for missing members is particularly help‐

ful in converting a class to TypeScript.

This will add declarations for the missing members based on usage:

```
class Greeting {
greeting: string ;
name: any ;
constructor (name) {
this .greeting = 'Hello';
this .name = name;
}
greet() {
return `${ this .greeting} ${ this .name}`;
}
}
```
```
Item 82: Convert Module by Module Up Your Dependency Graph | 357
```

TypeScript was able to get the type for greeting correct, but not the type for name.

After applying this quick fix, you should look through the property list and fix the

any types.

If this is the first time you’ve seen the full property list for your class, you may be in

for a shock. When I converted the main class in dygraph.js (the root module in

Figure 10-3), I discovered that it had no fewer than 45 member variables! Migrating

to TypeScript has a way of surfacing bad designs like this that were previously

implicit. It’s harder to justify a bad design if you have to look at it. But again, resist the

urge to refactor now. Note the oddity and think about how you’d fix it some other

day.

**Values with Changing Types**

TypeScript will complain about code like this:

```
const state = {};
state.name = 'New York';
// ~~~~ Property 'name' does not exist on type '{}'
state.capital = 'Albany';
// ~~~~~~~ Property 'capital' does not exist on type '{}'
```
This topic is covered in more depth in Item 21, so you may want to brush up on that

item if you run into this error. If the fix is trivial, you can build the object all at once:

```
const state = {
name: 'New York',
capital: 'Albany',
}; // OK
```
If it is not, then this is an appropriate time to use a type assertion:

```
interface State {
name: string ;
capital: string ;
}
const state = {} as State;
state.name = 'New York'; // OK
state.capital = 'Albany'; // OK
```
Type assertions are problematic and best avoided (Item 9 explains why), so you

should refactor this eventually. But for now, an assertion is expedient and will help

you keep the migration going. Leave yourself a TODO comment or file a bug to clean

this up later.

If you’ve been using JSDoc and @ts-check (Item 80), be aware that you can actually

lose type safety by converting to TypeScript. For instance, TypeScript flags an error in

this JavaScript:

**358 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


```
// @ts-check
/**
* @param {number} num
*/
function double (num) {
return 2 * num;
}
```
```
double ('trouble');
// ~~~~~~~~~
// Argument of type 'string' is not assignable to parameter of type 'number'
```
When you convert to TypeScript, the @ts-check and JSDoc stop being enforced. This

means the type of num is implicitly any, so there’s no error:

```
/**
* @param {number} num
*/
function double (num) {
return 2 * num;
}
```
```
double ('trouble'); // OK
```
Fortunately there’s a quick fix to move JSDoc types to TypeScript types, as shown in

Figure 10-5.

Figure 10-5. Quick fix to copy JSDoc annotations to TypeScript type annotations.

Use this quick fix if it’s available! Once you’ve copied type annotations to TypeScript,

make sure to remove them from the JSDoc to avoid redundancy (see Item 31):

```
function double (num: number ) {
return 2 * num;
}
```
```
double ('trouble');
// ~~~~~~~~~
// Argument of type 'string' is not assignable to parameter of type 'number'
```
This issue will also be caught when you turn on noImplicitAny, but you may as well

add the types now.

```
Item 82: Convert Module by Module Up Your Dependency Graph | 359
```

Migrate your tests last. They should be at the top of your dependency graph (since

your production code doesn’t import them), and it’s extremely reassuring to know

that your tests continue to pass during the migration despite your not having changed

them at all. TypeScript migration is a pure refactor. It should not change the runtime

behavior of your code or your tests.

**Things to Remember**

- Start migration by adding @types for third-party modules and external API calls.
- Begin migrating your own modules from the bottom of the dependency graph
    upwards. The first module will usually be some sort of utility code. Consider vis‐
    ualizing the dependency graph to help you track progress.
- Resist the urge to refactor your code as you uncover odd designs. Keep a list of
    ideas for future refactors, but stay focused on TypeScript conversion.
- Be aware of common errors that come up during conversion. Move JSDoc types
    into TypeScript type annotations if necessary to avoid losing type safety as you
    convert.

#### Item 83: Don’t Consider Migration Complete Until You Enable noImplicitAny

Converting your whole project to .ts is a big accomplishment. But your work isn’t

done quite yet. Your next goal is to turn on the noImplicitAny option. TypeScript

code without noImplicitAny is best thought of as transitional because it can mask

real errors you’ve made in your type declarations.

For example, perhaps you’ve used the “Add all missing members” quick fix to add

property declarations to a class, as described in Item 82. You’re left with an any type

and would like to fix it:

```
class Chart {
indices: any ;
```
```
// ...
}
```
indices sounds like it should be an array of numbers, so you plug in that type:

```
class Chart {
indices: number [];
```
```
// ...
}
```
**360 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


No new errors result, so you then keep moving. Unfortunately, you’ve made a mis‐

take: number[] is the wrong type. Here’s some code from elsewhere in the class:

```
getRanges() {
for ( const r of this .indices) {
const low = r[0];
// ^? const low: any
const high = r[1];
// ^? const high: any
// ...
}
}
```
Clearly number[][] or [number, number][] would be a more accurate type. Does it

surprise you that indexing into a number is allowed? Take this as an indication of just

how loose TypeScript can be without noImplicitAny.

When you turn on noImplicitAny, this becomes an error:

```
getRanges() {
for ( const r of this .indices) {
const low = r[0];
// ~~~~ Element implicitly has an 'any' type because
// type 'Number' has no index signature
const high = r[1];
// ~~~~ Element implicitly has an 'any' type because
// type 'Number' has no index signature
// ...
}
}
```
A good strategy for enabling noImplicitAny is to set it in your local client and start

fixing errors. The number of errors you get from the type checker gives you a good

sense of your progress. Tracking your type coverage (Item 49) can also give you a

sense of progress during this phase of migration.

Run your tests with every change and commit frequently because you may only dis‐

cover that you’ve made a mistake later. You may find it helpful to fix noImplicitAny

errors going “up the graph,” as described in Item 82. You can commit the type correc‐

tions without committing the tsconfig.json change to your repo until you get the

number of errors down to zero.

You might also choose to prioritize type safety in some parts of your codebase over

others, perhaps by fixing noImplicitAny errors in your production code before your

unit tests. If you use project references (described in Item 78) then you can even have

distinct tsconfig.json files with different strictness settings for different parts of your

project.

```
Item 83: Don’t Consider Migration Complete Until You Enable noImplicitAny | 361
```

There are many other knobs you can turn to increase the strictness of type checking,

culminating with "strict": true. But noImplicitAny is the most important one,

and your project will get most of the benefits of TypeScript even if you don’t adopt

other settings like strictNullChecks. Give everyone on your team a chance to get

used to TypeScript before you adopt stricter settings.

**Things to Remember**

- Don’t consider your TypeScript migration done until you adopt noImplicitAny.
    Loose type checking can mask real mistakes in type declarations.
- Fix type errors gradually before enforcing noImplicitAny. Give your team a
    chance to get comfortable with TypeScript before adopting stricter checks.

**362 | Chapter 10: Modernization and Migration**


**APPENDIX**

### Item Mapping Between

### First and Second Editions

All but one of the items from the first edition can be found in the second as well,

though sometimes with significant changes. The lone retired item covered Type‐

Script’s private field visibility modifiers. The same material now lives in Item 72,

which advises you to use ECMAScript standard #private fields instead.

The second edition includes two new chapters as well as new items scattered

throughout the book. This means that item numbers from the first edition generally

won’t match the second. If you see a reference to an Effective TypeScript item that

seems to be talking about something else entirely, it may be from the first edition.

This table will direct you to the right place.

Table A-1. First edition to second edition item mapping

```
1st ed. 2nd edition item number: title
1 1: Understand the Relationship Between TypeScript and JavaScript
2 2: Know Which TypeScript Options You’re Using
3 3: Understand That Code Generation Is Independent of Types
4 4: Get Comfortable with Structural Typing
5 5: Limit Use of the any Type
6 6: Use Your Editor to Interrogate and Explore the Type System
7 7: Think of Types as Sets of Values
8 8: Know How to Tell Whether a Symbol Is in the Type Space or Value Space
9 9: Prefer Type Annotations to Type Assertions
10 10: Avoid Object Wrapper Types (String, Number, Boolean, Symbol, BigInt)
11 11: Distinguish Excess Property Checking from Type Checking
```
##### 363


```
1st ed. 2nd edition item number: title
12 12: Apply Types to Entire Function Expressions When Possible
13 13: Know the Differences Between type and interface
14 15: Use Type Operations and Generic Types to Avoid Repeating Yourself
15 16: Prefer More Precise Alternatives to Index Signatures
16 17: Avoid Numeric Index Signatures
17 14: Use readonly to Avoid Errors Associated with Mutation
18 61: Use Record Types to Keep Values in Sync
19 18: Avoid Cluttering Your Code with Inferable Types
20 19: Use Different Variables for Different Types
21 20: Understand How a Variable Gets Its Type
22 22: Understand Type Narrowing
23 21: Create Objects All at Once
24 23: Be Consistent in Your Use of Aliases
25 27: Use async Functions Instead of Callbacks to Improve Type Flow
26 24: Understand How Context Is Used in Type Inference
27 26: Use Functional Constructs and Libraries to Help Types Flow
28 29: Prefer Types That Always Represent Valid States
29 30: Be Liberal in What You Accept and Strict in What You Produce
30 31: Don’t Repeat Type Information in Documentation
31 33: Push Null Values to the Perimeter of Your Types
32 34: Prefer Unions of Interfaces to Interfaces with Unions
33 35: Prefer More Precise Alternatives to String Types
34 40: Prefer Imprecise Types to Inaccurate Types
35 42: Avoid Types Based on Anecdotal Data
36 41: Name Types Using the Language of Your Problem Domain
37 64: Consider “Brands” for Nominal Typing
38 43: Use the Narrowest Possible Scope for any Types
39 44: Prefer More Precise Variants of any to Plain any
40 45: Hide Unsafe Type Assertions in Well-Typed Functions
41 25: Understand Evolving Types
42 46: Use unknown Instead of any for Values with an Unknown Type
43 47: Prefer Type-Safe Approaches to Monkey Patching
44 49: Track Your Type Coverage to Prevent Regressions in Type Safety
45 65: Put TypeScript and @types in devDependencies
46 66: Understand the Three Versions Involved in Type Declarations
47 67: Export All Types That Appear in Public APIs
48 68: Use TSDoc for API Comments
```
**364 | Item Mapping Between First and Second Editions**


**1st ed. 2nd edition item number: title**

49 69: Provide a Type for this in Callbacks if it’s part of their API

50 52: Prefer Conditional Types to Overload Signatures

51 70: Mirror Types to Sever Dependencies

52 55: Write Tests for Your Types

53 72: Prefer ECMAScript Features to TypeScript Features

54 60: Know How to Iterate Over Objects

55 75: Understand the DOM hierarchy

56 72: Prefer ECMAScript Features to TypeScript Features

57 73: Use Source Maps to Debug TypeScript

58 79: Write Modern JavaScript

59 80: Use @ts-check and JSDoc to Experiment with TypeScript

60 81: Use allowJs to Mix TypeScript and JavaScript

61 82: Convert Module by Module Up Your Dependency Graph

62 83: Don’t Consider Migration Complete Until You Enable noImplicitAny

```
Item Mapping Between First and Second Editions | 365
```


### Index.

**Symbols**
! (non-null) type assertion, 44 , 48
! (not) operator, 44
# (visibility modifier), 312
& (and) operator, 44
& (intersection) operator, 35 , 44, 74
? (optional chaining) operator, 48 , 347
?? (nullish coalescing) operator, 110 , 348
@deprecated, 293
@param, 147 , 291
@returns, 291
@template, 293
@ts-check, 348 -353, 358-359
@ts-expect-error, 187 , 244, 335
@ts-ignore, 187
@types (type dependencies)
converting module by module, 354 -356
in devDependencies, 283 -285
documentation with TSDoc, 291 -294
severing dependencies, 298 -300
version matching, 286 -290
[] property accessor, 43
{} type, 198
| (or) operator, 44
| (union) operator, 44

**A**
accumulators, 232 -233
Air France Flight 447, 140 -142
aliases
avoiding null/undefined in, 148 -149
consistency in, 111 -115
recursion, 254

```
allowJs, 353 -354
anecdotal data, avoiding in type design,
180 -184
any type, 7, 185
assignability, 196
drawbacks to, 22 -26
hiding unsafe type assertions, 190 -194
narrow scope for, 185 -188
noImplicitAny, 8-9, 360-362
precise versus plain variants, 188 -190
as soundness trap, 204
testing types, 244 -245
tracking type coverage, 211 -214
type-safe approaches versus monkey patch‐
ing, 198 -202
unknown type versus, 195 -198
Array.isArray, 108
ArrayLike type, 87
arrays
for any type precision, 189
associative, 83
evolving types, 119 -122
object destructuring syntax, 113
robustness principle, 145 -146
soundness traps, 205 -206
tuples, relationship with, 38
type inference, 91 , 101
type narrowing, 109
unchecked accesses, 204
variance in, 208 -209
arrow functions, 46 -47, 347
assertUnreachable pattern, 263 -267
assignability
```
##### 367


of any and unknown types, 196
of classes, 21
of optional properties, 210 -211
in testing types, 241 -244
in value space, 42
assignable in type errors, 34
associative arrays, 83 , 347
async functions, 127 -132
asynchronous functions, 347
augmented interfaces, 63 , 200-201, 301-304
await keyword, 128 -132

**B**
ban-types rule, 52
best common type, 101
BigInt values, 52
bivariant classes, 207 -208
boolean types, 233
bottom types, 33
brands, 279 -282
bundling type declarations, 288 -289

**C**
C-style for loops, 347
callbacks
async functions instead, 127 -132
binding this keyword in, 294 -298, 347
type inference, 118 -119
type narrowing, 110
casts, 49
changing types, values with, 358 -360
CJS (CommonJS), 345
classes
assignability, 21
bivariance, 207 -208
mixing null/non-null values, 152 -153
parameter properties, 308 -309
prototypes versus, 345 -346
type inference and explicit typing, 133 -134
type parameters in, 220 , 224-225
type space versus value space, 13 , 42
undeclared members, 357 -358
visibility modifiers, 311
closed types, 20
code, writing and running
accuracy of environment model, 329 -332
compiler performance, 336 -342

```
debugging with source maps, 313 -319
DOM hierarchy, 324 -329
preferring ECMAScript features, 305 -313
reconstructing types at runtime, 319 -324
relationship between unit testing and type
checking, 332 -335
codegen (code generation), 256 -259
CommonJS (CJS), 345
compact object literals, 347
compiling versus type checking, 11 -18
conditional types
distribution of unions over, 230 -234
overload signatures versus, 227 -230
configuration settings, 8-11
const assertions, 102
const construct
type space versus value space, 44
type widening, 100
const contexts, 49 , 117
const enums, 306
context in type inference, 115 -119
contravariance, 207
control flow analysis, 89 , 107, 111-115
covariance, 207
currying, 134 -135
```
```
D
dead code, eliminating, 337 -338
debugging with source maps, 313 -319
declaration merging, 63 , 302
declared types (see type declarations)
decorators, 310 -311
default values, 166 , 347
DefinitelyTyped, 284
dependencies, 283
dependency management
binding this keyword in callbacks, 294 -298
converting module by module, 354 -360
documentation with TSDoc, 291 -294
eliminating unused dependencies, 337 -338
exporting public API types, 290 -291
JSON.parse augmentation, 301 -304
mirroring types, 298 -300
TypeScript and @types in devDependencies,
283 -285
version matching, 286 -290
destructuring assignment, 92 , 347
devDependencies, 283 -285
```
**368 | Index**


discriminated unions (see tagged unions)
displaying types, 248 -252
distinction without a difference, 113
documentation
for API comments, 291 -294
for generic types, 218
JSDoc, 348 -353, 358-359
type information in, 146 -148
DOM hierarchy, 324 -329, 350
domain-specific languages (DSLs), 238
domains (of types), 33 -40, 158
double assertions, 198
DRY (don't repeat yourself ) principle, 72 -81
DSLs (domain-specific languages), 238
dtslint, 246
duck typing, 18 -22

**E**
ECMAScript, 305 -313
ECMAScript modules (ESM), 344 -345
editors, 27 -32
Element (DOM hierarchy), 326
empty set, 33
enums (enumerations), 42 , 306-308
environment models, accuracy of, 329 -332
equality of types, 39
errors (see type errors)
ES2015
classes versus prototypes, 345 -346
ECMAScript modules, 344 -345
eslint-plugin-expect-type, 247
ESM (ECMAScript modules), 344 -345
Event (DOM hierarchy), 328
EventTarget (DOM hierarchy), 325 -326
evolving types, 119 -122
excess property checking, 46
disabling, 84
enabling, 93
synchronizing values, 270 -273
type checking versus, 53 -56
exclusive or, modeling, 276 -279
exhaustiveness checking, 261 -267
expect-type, 244
experimentalDecorators, 310 -311
explicit any types, 212
explicit type annotation, 101 , 187, 342
explicit type definitions, 132 -135, 159
explicitly typed languages, 89

```
exporting public API types, 290 -291
extends keyword, 36 -38, 44, 218
```
```
F
fail open/fail closed, 270 -273
file extensions, 2
finite types, 34
for(;;) loops, 347
function expressions, 56 -60
function parameters
avoiding repeating same type, 168 -170
naming, 218
refactoring as objects, 169
string types in, 160 -161
type annotations with, 92 -93
function return types, type annotations with,
94 -96
function statements, 56 -60
functional constructs, 106 , 123-127
functions
asynchronous, 347
avoiding any type, 190
contravariance, 207
covariance, 207
generic types versus, 216 -221
hiding unsafe type assertions, 190 -194
inspecting, 28
invalidating refinements, 209 -210
overloading, 17 , 193, 302
running synchronously/asynchronously,
130
structural typing, 18 -22
unknown type in, 223
variadic, 273 -276
```
```
G
generic types, 203
avoiding repetition with, 72 -81
avoiding unnecessary type parameters,
221 -226
conditional types versus overload signa‐
tures, 227 -230
displaying, 249 -252
distribution of unions over conditional
types, 230 -234
documentation, 218
functions versus, 216 -221
```
```
Index | 369
```

tail-recursive, 252 -256
template literal types with, 236 -237
GeoJSON, 143 , 172-173, 180-182, 196
global variables, 198 -200, 330
Goldberg, Josh, 215

**H**
Hejlsberg, Anders, 116
hiding unsafe type assertions, 190 -194
homomorphic mapped types, 77 -78, 250
HTMLElement (DOM hierarchy), 327

**I**
immutable values, 40
implicit any errors, 121
implicit anys, 9
imprecise versus inaccurate types, 172 -177
in keyword, 44
inclusive or, 276
incremental builds, 339 -341
index signatures, 55
alternatives to, 81 -85
avoiding numeric, 85 -88
inferring types (see type inference)
infinite types, 34
inspecting
functions, 28
method names, 29
properties, 28
instanceof
type narrowing, 107
with unknown type, 197
interfaces
augmented, 200 -201, 301-304
types versus, 60 -66, 342
unions of interfaces versus interfaces of
unions, 154 -157
intersection type, 35 , 217-218
iterating over objects, 267 -270

**J**
JavaScript
migrating to TypeScript (see migration)
mixing with TypeScript, 353 -354
relationship with TypeScript, 1-7, 305, 319
writing modern, 344 -348
.js extension, 2

```
JSDoc, 147 , 348-353, 358-359
JSON Schema, 320 , 322-323
json-schema-to-typescript, 183 , 320, 324
JSON.parse, 301 -304
```
```
K
keyof expressions, 77
```
```
L
language services, 23 -25, 27-32
Learning TypeScript (Goldberg), 215
let keyword, 100
libraries
type declarations for, 349
type inference, 106 , 123-127
literal types, 33 , 41
local type aliases, 135
Lodash, 123 -126
```
```
M
Map types, 83 , 270
mapped types, 75 -78
metaprogramming, 215 , 257
method names, inspecting, 29
migration
converting module by module, 354 -360
enabling noImplicitAny, 360 -362
experimenting with TypeScript, 348 -353
file extensions, 2
mixing JavaScript and TypeScript, 353 -354
preparing for, 343
writing modern JavaScript, 344 -348
mirroring types, 298 -300
modeling differences versus unifying types,
170 -172
models (of environment), accuracy of, 329 -332
modules
as any type, 213 , 244
CommonJS, 345
converting up dependency graph, 354 -360
ECMAScript, 344 -345
triple-slash imports, 309
monkey patching, 198 -202
mutations, preventing errors with readonly,
66 -71
```
**370 | Index**


**N**
named types, 95
namespaces, 309
naming
function parameters, 218
types, 177 -180
narrow scope for any type, 185 -188
narrowing types, 10 , 106-111, 202
nested structures, 113
never type, 33 , 233-234
exhaustiveness checking, 261 -267
as optional, 276 -279
Node (DOM hierarchy), 326
Node Package Manager (npm), 283
Node.js source maps, 317 -318
noEmit, 341
noEmitOnError, 15
noImplicitAny, 8-9, 218, 360-362
noImplicitThis, 10
nominal typing, 279 -282
non-null type assertions, 10 , 48
noUncheckedIndexedAccess option, 10 , 205
npm (Node Package Manager), 283
null checking, 106
null values
avoiding in aliases, 148 -149
excluding, 108
pushing to perimeter of types, 150 -153
strictNullChecks, 9-10
nullable values, 347
nullish coalescing operator, 110 , 348
number-valued enums, 306 , 308
numeric index signatures, avoiding, 85 -88

**O**
object destructuring syntax, 113
object literals, type annotations with, 93
object spread syntax, 105 -106
object wrapper types, 50 -52
Object.entries, 269
Object.freeze, 102
Object/object types, 198
objects
for any type precision, 189
building, 104 -106
index signatures
alternatives to, 81 -85

```
avoiding numeric, 85 -88
iterating over, 267 -270
refactoring parameters as, 169
soundness traps, 205 -206
type inference, 90 -91, 101-103, 118
type narrowing, 109
type-safe approaches versus monkey patch‐
ing, 198 -202
variance in, 208 -209
omission, errors of, 261 -267
open types, 20
OpenAPI, 320
optional chaining operator, 48 , 347
optional never type, 276 -279
optional properties, 165 -168, 210-211
options (see configuration settings)
output, produced with type errors, 14 -15
overload signatures versus conditional types,
227 -230
overloading functions, 17 , 193, 302
```
```
P
parameter properties, 308 -309
parameters (see function parameters)
peerDependencies, 284
performance
effect of TypeScript types on, 17 -18
of TypeScript compiler (tsc), 336 -342
PgTyped, 257 -258
Pick, 75 -78
Postel's Law, 142 -146
precise types, 20
precision
with any type, 188 -190
of types, 172 -177
preserveConstEnums, 306
primitives, 50 -52
private modifier, 311
problem domain vocabulary, 177 -180
programming (see type-level programming)
project references, 339 -341
Promises, 127 -132
properties
aliases and, 113 -114
assignability of optional, 210 -211
default values, 166
excess property checking, 46
disabling, 84
```
```
Index | 371
```

enabling, 93
synchronizing values, 270 -273
type checking versus, 53 -56
inspecting, 28
optional, 165 -168
parameter properties, 308 -309
soundness traps, 205 -206
type-safe approaches versus monkey patch‐
ing, 198 -202
visibility modifiers, 311
property checks (in type narrowing), 107
PropertyKey, 217
protected modifier, 311
prototype pollution, 269
prototypes versus classes, 345 -346
public API types
documentation with TSDoc, 291 -294
exporting, 290 -291
public modifier, 311

**R**
React library, 57 , 206, 284, 286, 289
readonly modifier, 66 -71, 312
Record types, 84 , 270-273
recursion, 175 , 252-256
refactoring
any type and, 25
function parameters as objects, 169
tools for, 30
with type inference, 91 -92
refining types, 10 , 209-210
renaming symbols, 30 -31
repeating parameters, avoiding with same type,
168 -170
repetition, avoiding, 72 -81
rest parameters, 273 -276
return-only generics, 49
reusing variables, avoiding, 96 -99
robustness principle, 142 -146
runtime
declared types versus runtime types, 16
effect of TypeScript types on performance,
17 -18
inability to check TypeScript at, 12 -14
modeling with type system, 6
reconstructing types, 319 -324
type operations and runtime values, 15 -16
runtime libraries, 321 -322

```
S
satisfies operator, 103
schemas, generating types from, 320
scope for any type, 185 -188
sealed types, 20
sets of values, types as, 33 -40, 158, 219
severing dependencies, 298 -300
shadowed variables, 98
slice method, 29
soundness of type system, 7
avoiding soundness traps, 202 -211
optional properties, 167
unsoundness, 16 , 185
source maps, debugging with, 313 -319
special values, types for, 162 -165
statements in type space versus value space, 42
statically typed languages, 89
strict mode, 10 , 348
strictFunctionTypes, 10 , 208
strictNullChecks, 9-10, 164, 203, 264
string primitives, 50 -52
string-valued enums, 306 -307
stringly typed, 158
strings
alternatives to, 158 -162
numeric index signatures as, 85 -88
template literal types, 234 -240
unions of literal types, 307
structural typing, 18 -22, 35, 277, 279, 299
structured strings, 235
subtypes, 37 , 49
supersets, 2
switch-exhaustiveness-check, 267
Symbol values, 52
symbols
renaming, 30 -31
type space versus value space, 40 -45
```
```
T
tagged unions, 13
drawbacks to, 279
duplication with, 76
exclusive or with, 278
helping type checker, 108
modeling application states, 139
unions of interfaces versus interfaces of
unions, 154
```
**372 | Index**


tail-recursive generic types, 252 -256
TC39, 305 , 348
TCO (Tail Call Optimization), 253
TDD (test-driven development), 95
template literal types, 77 , 234-240, 266
testing
relationship with type checking, 332 -335
types, 21 -22, 219, 240-248
this keyword
binding in callbacks, 294 -298
binding this keyword in callbacks, 347
type space versus value space, 44
throwing (in type narrowing), 107
top types, 39
transpiling, 11
triple-slash imports, 309
.ts extension, 2
tsc (TypeScript compiler), 27
code generation versus type checking, 11 -18
performance, 336 -342
tsd, 247
TSDoc, 291 -294
tsserver (TypeScript server), 27 , 336-342
tuples
arrays, relationship with, 38
modeling variadic functions, 273 -276
type inference, 102 , 116-118
Turing tar-pit, 257
type aliases (see aliases)
type annotations, 342
as documentation, 147
in exhaustiveness checks, 264
explicit, 101 , 187
for function expressions, 56 -60
with function parameters, 92 -93
with function return types, 94 -96
intent indicated with, 4-5
with object literals, 93
object wrapper types and, 52
preferring over type assertions, 45 -50
reducing use of, 90 -96
relationship of TypeScript/JavaScript, 2
type assertions, 16 , 104
const assertions versus, 102
DOM hierarchy and, 327
excess property checking, 55
explicit any types, 212
generic types and, 223

```
hiding unsafe type assertions, 190 -194
iterating over objects, 267 -270
with JSDoc, 350
in migration, 358
non-null, 10
preferring type annotations over, 45 -50
as soundness trap, 204 -205
type narrowing, 108 , 202
in type space, 42
with unknown type, 196
when to use, 47 -49
Type Challenges project, 215
type checking
with @ts-check, 348 -353, 358-359
code generation versus, 11 -18
excess property checking versus, 53 -56
relationship with unit testing, 332 -335
separating from building, 336 -337
type coverage, tracking, 211 -214
type declarations, 105
binding this keyword in callbacks, 294 -298
converting module by module, 354 -356
declaration merging, 63
inaccuracy in, 206 -207
for JSON.parse, 301 -304
mirroring types, 298 -300
runtime types versus, 16
for third-party libraries, 349
in type space, 42
for undeclared globals, 349
version matching, 286 -290
viewing, 31 -32
type dependencies (see @types; dependency
management)
type design
anecdotal data, avoiding, 180 -184
any type and, 26
avoiding null/undefined in aliases, 148 -149
imprecise versus inaccurate types, 172 -177
naming types, 177 -180
optional properties, 165 -168
pushing null values to perimeter, 150 -153
repeating function parameters of same type,
168 -170
representing valid states, 137 -142
robustness principle, 142 -146
for special values, 162 -165
string type alternatives, 158 -162
```
```
Index | 373
```

type information in documentation,
146 -148
unifying versus modeling differences,
170 -172
unions of interfaces versus interfaces of
unions, 154 -157
type equality, 39
type errors
assignable in, 34
errors of omission, 261 -267
output produced from, 14 -15
preventing with readonly, 66 -71
viewing, 29 -30
type guards, 109
type inference, 3, 27-29, 59, 89
aliases, 111 -115
async functions, 127 -132
avoiding type annotations, 90 -96
building objects, 104 -106
callbacks, 127 -132
context in, 115 -119
evolving types, 119 -122
functional constructs and utility libraries,
123 -127
Promises, 127 -132
separating from explicit typing, 132 -135
template literal types with, 236 -237
type narrowing, 106 -111
type widening, 99 -104
variables, avoiding reusing, 96 -99
type inlining, 65
type-level programming, 215
type narrowing, 10 , 106-111, 202
type operations
avoiding repetition with, 72 -81
runtime values and, 15 -16
type parameters, 197 , 216
avoiding unnecessary, 221 -226
in classes, 220
type predicates, 109
type signatures, 56 -60
type space versus value space, 14 , 40-45
type system
confidence in, 26
excess property checking, 53 -56
exploring with editor, 27 -32
modeling runtime behavior, 6
as optional and gradual, 22 , 185

```
soundness, 7
as static, 3
testing types, 244 -246
type widening, 99 -104
type-level programming
avoiding unnecessary type parameters,
221 -226
codegen (code generation), 256 -259
conditional types versus overload signa‐
tures, 227 -230
displaying types, 248 -252
distribution of unions over conditional
types, 230 -234
functions versus generic types, 216 -221
tail-recursive generic types, 252 -256
template literal types, 234 -240
testing types, 240 -248
typeof operator, 43 , 78-79, 321
types
displaying, 248 -252
exporting public API types, 290 -291
inability to check at runtime, 12 -14
interfaces versus, 60 -66, 342
mirroring, 298 -300
naming, 177 -180
reconstructing at runtime, 319 -324
relationships between, 236 -237
as sets of values, 33 -40, 158, 219
simplifying, 341
testing, 21 -22, 219, 240-248
values with changing types, 358 -360
types.d.ts file, 349
TypeScript
debugging with source maps, 313 -319
in devDependencies, 283 -285
experimenting with, 348 -353
inability to check at runtime, 12 -14
migrating to (see migration)
mixing with JavaScript, 353 -354
preferring ECMAScript features, 305 -313
relationship with JavaScript, 1-7, 305, 319
TypeScript compiler (tsc), 27
code generation versus type checking, 11 -18
performance, 336 -342
TypeScript playground, 12 , 41
TypeScript server (tsserver), 27 , 336-342
typescript-eslint, 52
typescript-json-schema, 322 , 324
```
**374 | Index**


**U**
unchecked array accesses, 204
undeclared class members, 357 -358
undeclared globals, 349
undefined values, 206
avoiding in aliases, 148 -149
strictNullChecks, 9-10
unifying types versus modeling differences,
170 -172
union types, 97
conditional types and, 229
displaying, 249
distribution over conditional types, 230 -234
excluding null, 108
forming, 34
keyof, 35
as sets of values, 38
simplifying, 342
tagged unions (see tagged unions)
union interfaces, lack of, 62
unions of interfaces versus interfaces of
unions, 154 -157
unions of string literal types, 307
unique symbol type, 281
unit testing, relationship with type checking,
332 -335
unit types, 33
universal set, 39
unknown type
any type versus, 195 -198
with arrays, 190
assignability, 196
domain of, 39
as function return, 223
type assertions and, 49
unsafe type assertions, hiding, 190 -194
unsoundness, 16 , 185
(see also soundness of type system)
"use strict", 348
user-defined type guards, 49 , 109, 197

```
V
valid states, representing in type design,
137 -142
value space versus type space, 14 , 40-45
values
avoiding mixing null/non-null, 150 -153
changing types, 358 -360
default, 166 , 347
as immutable, 40
nullable, 347
special, types for, 162 -165
synchronizing, 270 -273
type operations and runtime values, 15 -16
types as sets of, 33 -40, 158, 219
variables
avoiding reusing, 96 -99
declaring, 347
shadowed, 98
type information in names, 148
type narrowing, 106 -111
type widening, 99 -104
variadic functions, 273 -276
variance in objects and arrays, 208 -209
version matching in dependency management,
286 -290
viewing
type declarations, 31 -32
type errors, 29 -30
visibility modifiers, 311
vocabularies (from problem domain), 177 -180
```
```
W
weak types, 55
widening, 99 -104
```
```
Z
Zod, 321 -322
```
```
Index | 375
```

**About the Author**

**Dan Vanderkam** is an independent software developer based in upstate New York.

He was previously a principal software engineer at Sidewalk Labs and a senior staff

software engineer at Google. He also worked on open source genome visualizations at

Mount Sinai’s Icahn School of Medicine, as well as on Google search features used by

billions of people (search for “sunset nyc” or “population of france”). He has a long

history of building open source projects.

When he’s not programming, Dan enjoys rock climbing at the nearby Shawangunk

Ridge, hiking in the Catskills, and birdwatching all around the world. He writes at

effectivetypescript.com and at danvk.org. He earned his bachelor’s in Computer Sci‐

ence from Rice University in Houston, Texas, and lives in Wallkill, New York.


**Colophon**

The animal on the cover of Effective TypeScript is a red-billed oxpecker (Buphagus

erythrorhynchus). These birds inhabit a fragmented range across eastern Africa, from

Ethiopia and Somalia in the northeast to a few pockets in South Africa; however,

these birds can be said to inhabit the range of the grazing animals on which they

spend almost all their lives.

Red-billed oxpeckers are related to starlings and mynahs, although they are of a dis‐

tinct and separate family. About eight inches long and weighing about two ounces,

these birds have a bark-brown head, back, and tail, with paler coloring below. Their

most striking physical features are their red beaks and red eyes set off by bright yellow

eyerings.

Dominating the life of this bird is where and how it finds its food: red-billed oxpeck‐

ers feed on ticks and other animal parasites, and they perch on animals as they forage.

Their host animals are most often antelope (such as kudu and impala) as well as large

animals such as zebra, giraffe, buffalo, and rhinoceros (elephants do not tolerate

them). Red-billed oxpeckers have evolved adaptations to assist them in their search

for food, such as a flat beak to pierce thick animal hair, as well as sharp claws and a

stiff tail to hang on to their host animals. These birds even conduct courtship while

perched on a host animal, leaving only during nesting season. Parent birds raise three

chicks in a nest hole (lined with hair pulled from their host) close to the animal herds

so that they can feed themselves and their young.

The birds’ relationship with their animal hosts was once seen as a clear-cut and classic

example of mutualism (a mutually beneficial interaction between species). However,

recent studies have shown that oxpeckers’ feeding habits don’t significantly affect

hosts’ parasite loads; additionally, oxpeckers actually work to keep animals’ wounds

open, so that they can feed on their blood.

Red-billed oxpeckers remain common across their range; although pesticide use is a

threat, their adoption of domestic cattle herds as a food source helps their population

remain stable. Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are

important to the world.

The cover illustration is by Jose Marzan, based on a black-and-white engraving from

Elements of Ornithology. The series design is by Edie Freedman, Ellie Volckhausen,

and Karen Montgomery. The cover fonts are Gilroy and Guardian Sans. The text font

is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code

font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.


**Learn from experts.**

**Become one yourself.**

Books | Live online courses

Instant answers | Virtual events

Videos | Interactive learning

Get started at oreilly.com.

```
©2023 O’Reilly Media, Inc. O’Reilly is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. 175 7x9.1975
```

